Breakout Plan
Gordon Huynh (ghh6)
CS 308
1/14/2017

After looking at the Breakout variants, the most interesting variant to me was Devilish. Personally
I really enjoy RPG/adventure games and Devilish had a very nice adventure feel to it. For my project,
I plan on making a Breakout RPG variant; where the player is not simply playing against themselves, but
instead a boss for each level. Instead of lives, the player has a set amount of health points. The boss
for each level also has health points and must be depleted for the player to win. In my variant, the
player does not actually have to clear all the blocks, only kill the boss. For now, the player will have
roughly 100 hp and the bosses will have hp that depend on the level the player is at such as: level 1 - 
100 hp, level 2 - 200 hp, level 3 - 500 hp, level 4 - 1000 hp. The player will have specific balls that
can only damage the boss and break up blocks. It cannot hurt the player. On the otherside, the boss will
generate enemy balls that cannot hurt the boss, can go over blocks, and can damage the player. These balls
represent minions that the boss sends to attack the player and thus also have hp which deplete after
hitting a wall or bouncing off the player's paddle. These balls will disappear once their hp is gone and
also have a chance of dropping a power up. To do damage the player's ball must hit the boss hitbox and
vice versa for the boss. The entire bottom wall will be the player's location and "hitbox". On the
top wall will be the boss's location and "hitbox". For each boss/level, I plan on also having critical
points on the boss's wall that remain for the entire round that if hit, will do extra damage to the
boss.

Blocks in my game will be obstacles for only the player and serve to delay or hinder the player's
attempts to attack the boss. For now, I have five block types in mind: normal, fire, ice, spawner, and
invincible blocks. Normal blocks are the generic block that takes only one hit from a player ball to be
destroyed. Fire blocks take 3 hits to be destroyed and when hit, causes the player's ball to catch on
fire which speeds it up for a short duration. Conversely, ice blocks are the same but instead freezes
the ball which causes it to slow down for it's duration. Spawner blocks take 5 hits to be destroyed and
while active will spawn normal blocks around itself every set amount of time. Finally, invincible
blocks are self explanatory and cannot be destroyed.

Power ups that I want to include have a chance of spawning from destroyed blocks and a greater chance
of spawning from enemy balls destroyed, but should still be infrequent. The power ups I plan on
including include: shield, ally, magic and heal. Shields prevent damage to the player from the next 3
hits from enemy balls. Ally will spawn an additional player ball. Magic will buff player balls that
lasts until the ball hits the boss or blocks. The buff does extra damage to the boss or when the ball
hits a block, the block will then damage surrounding blocks. Heal will simply heal the player an amount
of hp without going over the initial 100.

The only cheats I intend in including are cheats that immediately grant the player a specific power up,
cheats that allow you to skip to a specific level, and a cheat to instant kill a boss.

My levels are going to be a more progressive style that gradually introduce players to the mechanics of
the game. For the first level, there will only be normal blocks and one critical point:

ooooooooooxxxxoooooooooo

------------------------
------------------------
------------------------
------------------------

       .
        ____
        
o's being regular hit boxes, and x's being critical points

Level 2 would introduce fire and ice blocks and they would be randomly spawned in with the normal blocks.

oooooxoooooxxoooooxooooo

---f------i-----f----f--
i----i----------f-------
----f-----i------i---f--
-------f-----f----i-----

           .
         ____

f's being fire blocks and i's being ice blocks

Level 3 now includes spawner blocks and invincible blocks. It also has a more determined layout

oooooxxooooooooooxxooooo

          ====
---f-----i-------i-----f
==--f---f--ss-----i---==
---i---------f-------i--

                  .
      ____
      
= being invincible blocks and s's being spawner blocks

The final level would be something similar to Level 3, but with a more challenging layout.
In addition to block layouts increasing in difficulty, critical points becoming harder to hit, and boss
hp increasing; I am planning to have the rate at which the boss sends out balls to increase.